doc: plugin developer guide (#1632)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/08.developer-guide/06.plugins.md

3. Change the package name on `build.gradle`: replace `group "io.kestra.plugin.templates"` to the package name.

Now you can start [developing your task](#develop-a-task) or look at other optional gradle configurations.

### Other configurations

#### Include some dependencies on plugins

You can add as many dependencies to your plugins, they will be isolated in the Kestra runtime. Thanks to this isolation, we ensure that two different versions of the same library will not clash and have runtime errors about missing methods.

> The `build.gradle` handle most of Kestra use case by default using `compileOnly "io.kestra:core"` for Kestra libs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `build.gradle` will handle most of Kestra use cases by default using `compileOnly "io.kestra:core"` for Kestra libs.
```

```

## Develop a Task
Here are the instructions for developing a new task.

There are multiple kinds of tasks that Kestra can execute:
- **Runnable tasks**: executed on the Worker, implement `RunnableTask`. Allow the implementation of a workflow step: computation, technology integration (database, external service), API call, ...
- **Flowable tasks**: executed on the Executor, implement `FlowableTask`. Allow the implementation orchestration logic.

> - **Executable tasks**: executed on the Executor, implement `ExecutableTask`. Allow the creation of executions of a flow (the same or a different), what is called a sub-flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Executable tasks**: executed on the Executor, implement `ExecutableTask`. Allow the creation of executions of a flow (the same or a different), which is called a sub-flow.
```

        }

        return true;
    }
}
```

#### Run method

```java
@Override
public ReverseString.Output run(RunContext runContext) throws Exception {
    Logger logger = runContext.logger();

    String render = runContext.render(format);
    logger.debug(render);

    return Output.builder()
        .reverse(StringUtils.reverse(render))
        .build();
}
```
The `run` method contains the main logic of your task. It will be called by the Worker to execute your task.

You can add any Java code here with any required libraries as long as you have declared them in the [Gradle configuration](#gradle-configuration).

##### Log

```java
Logger logger = runContext.logger();
```

Logging must be done using the run context logger. This will provide a logger for the current execution that creates log events integrated into Kestra and displayed in the UI. Don't create your own logger, or even worse, use `System.out`!

##### Render variables

```java
String render = runContext.render(format);
```
To use dynamic expressions, you need to render them i.e. transform the properties with Pebble.
Don't forget to render variables if you must pass an output from previous variables.

> You also need to add the annotation `@PluginProperty(dynamic = true)` to explain in the documentation that you can pass some dynamic variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to add the annotation `@PluginProperty(dynamic = true)` to explain that you can pass some dynamic variables in the documentation .
```

#### Documentation

To document your task and its properties and outputs, we provide a set of annotations explained in the [Document each plugin](/docs/developer-guide/documentation) section.

#### Other

There are a lot of other things you can do in a runnable task thanks to the run context:
- Access the [Key Value (KV) store](https://kestra.io/docs/concepts/kv-store) of the namespace using `runContext.namespaceKv()`.
- Access flow and execution information and variables using `runContext.flowInfo()` and `runContext.getVariables()`.
- Encrypt and decrypt properties or outputs using `runContext.encrypt()` and `runContext.decrypt()`.
- Access plugin configuration using `runContext.pluginConfiguration(String name)`.
- Access to [Namespace Files](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/namespace-files) of the namespace using `runContext.storage().namespace()` or of another namespace using `runContext.storage().namespace(String namespace)`.

> - Use the [State Store](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/storage#storing-data-inside-the-state-store) or implement caching using various methods on `runContext.storage()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the [State Store](./01.storage.md#storing-data-inside-the-state-store) or implement caching using various methods on `runContext.storage()`.
```

### Flowable tasks

> [Flowable tasks](/docs/concepts/flowable-tasks) are the most complex tasks to implement and will usually be available from the Kestra core. You will rarely need to create a flowable task by yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Flowable tasks](../05.concepts/01.flowable-tasks.md) are the most complex tasks to implement and will usually be available from the Kestra core. You will rarely need to create a flowable task by yourself.
```

            FlowableUtils.resolveTasks(this.getErrors(), parentTaskRun),
            parentTaskRun
        );
    }
}
```
::

1. Flowable tasks annotations are the same as for a runnable task.
2. Flowable tasks extend `Task` as for all tasks and implement `FlowableTask<Output>`, as a sequential task didn't produce any output we use `VoidOutput`.
3. The `errors` property is the list of tasks to execute in case of errors on any of the sub-tasks.
4. The `tasks` property is the list of sub-tasks to execute.
5. The `tasksTree()` method creates the graph to be displayed in the flow and execution topology views. Here we create a sequential graph with the list of sub-tasks and error tasks.
6. The `allChildTasks()` method returns the list of all tasks, including errors.
7. The `childTasks()` method returns the resolved tasks for a given parent task run.
8. The `resolveNexts()` method returns the next tasks to run for a given execution and parent task run. This is the most important method that will be called by the executor to know which task should be executed next. Here it will return the next task to run using the list of errors or sub-tasks.

### Executable task

> You can use as an example the [Subflow](https://kestra.io/plugins/core/tasks/flow/io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.subflow) task [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/core/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/core/flow/Subflow.java).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [Subflow](/plugins/core/tasks/flow/io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.subflow) task [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/core/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/core/flow/Subflow.java) as an example.
```

### Execution Updatable task

> You can use as an example the [Labels](https://kestra.io/plugins/core/tasks/execution/io.kestra.plugin.core.execution.labels) task [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/core/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/core/execution/Labels.java).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [Labels](/plugins/core/tasks/execution/io.kestra.plugin.core.execution.labels) task [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/core/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/core/execution/Labels.java) as an example.
```

```java
@KestraTest // <1>
class ExampleTest {
    // <2>
    @Inject
    private RunContextFactory runContextFactory;

    @Test
    void run() throws Exception {
        // <3>
        RunContext runContext = runContextFactory.of(ImmutableMap.of("variable", "John Doe"));

        // <4>
        Example task = Example.builder()
            .format("Hello {{ variable }}")
            .build();

        // <5>
        Example.Output runOutput = task.run(runContext);

        // <6>
        assertThat(runOutput.getChild().getValue(), is(StringUtils.reverse("Hello John Doe")));
    }
}
```
::

1. The `@KestraTest` will make sure all needed Kestra components are started before your test.
2. This is a standard Micronaut test so injection is possible. We inject the `RunContextFactory` to be able to create a test run context.
3. Creation of the run context, we add a variable at creation time to mock a previous task output variable so it s available for the task we test.
4. Creation of the task using it's builder. All needed properties need to be set.
5. Task execution.
6. Test assertion using the output of the task.
 
## Develop a Trigger

> There are two kinds of [triggers](/docs/workflow-components/triggers) that can be developed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of [triggers](../04.workflow-components/07.triggers/index.md) that can be developed:
```

- **Polling triggers**: poll an external system at a fixed rate for the presence of data and start an execution with the events (micro-batch).
- **Reatime triggers**: react to events as they happen with millisecond latency and start one execution by event.

> Kestra comes with other kinds of triggers (like Schedule or Webhook), but those needs adhoc code inside the Kestra core to work so you cannot implement these kinds of triggers from a custom plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kestra comes with other types of triggers (like Schedule or Webhook), but those needs adhoc code inside the Kestra core to work meaning you cannot implement these types of triggers from a custom plugin.
```

3. Polling triggers must have an `interval` property that will be the polling periodicity. It is advised to set a default with a not too low value such as 1 minute. Kestra's Scheduler will use this property to decide whether the trigger needs to be evaluated or not.
4. Polling triggers can have multiple properties such as tasks.
5. The `evaluate()` method is the main entry point for a polling trigger, it will be called by the Worker and can return an execution is evaluation is successful or an empty optional. The run context can be retrieved using `conditionContext.getRunContext()`.
6. Polling triggers can have output properties that will be available for the triggered execution.

::alert{type="warning"}
Take care that the trigger must frees their resources before the next evaluation. For each interval, this method will be called and if the conditions are met, an execution will be created.

To avoid this, move the file or remove the record from the database; take an action to avoid an infinite triggering.
::

### Realtime triggers

Realtime triggers are more complex to implement as they must create a reactive stream of executions that will be consumed by the Worker.

> You can find an example for the [Kafka](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-kafka/triggers/io.kestra.plugin.kafka.realtimetrigger) realtime trigger [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-kafka/blob/master/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/kafka/RealtimeTrigger.java).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find an example for the [Kafka](/plugins/plugin-kafka/triggers/io.kestra.plugin.kafka.realtimetrigger) realtime trigger [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-kafka/blob/master/src/main/java/io/kestra/plugin/kafka/RealtimeTrigger.java).
```

### Documentation

To document your triggers, we provide a set of annotations explained in the [Document each plugin](#document-your-plugin) section.

### Unit test

Triggers are usually not tested using a unit test but a [flow test](#testing-a-plugin-using-a-flow). However it is possible to create a test the same way we create a [test for a task](#unit-test).

## Develop a condition

Conditions are used by the Scheduler to determine when a specific trigger should create a new execution.

> Here is how you can develop a new [Condition](/docs/workflow-components/triggers#conditions.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how you can develop a new [Condition](../04.workflow-components/07.triggers/index.md#conditions).
```

### Documentation

To document your conditions, we provide a set of annotations explained in the [Document each plugin](#document-each-plugin) section.

### Unit test

Unit testing a condition is very close to unit testing a task. As for testing a condition you need a flow and an execution, there is a `TestsUtils` to create mocks of them.

::collapse{title="Here is an example of a condition test:"}
```java
@KestraTest
class ExecutionFlowConditionTest {
    @Inject
    ConditionService conditionService;

    @Test
    void valid() {
        Flow flow = TestsUtils.mockFlow();
        Execution execution = TestsUtils.mockExecution(flow, ImmutableMap.of());

        ExecutionFlowCondition build = ExecutionFlowCondition.builder()
            .namespace(flow.getNamespace())
            .flowId(flow.getId())
            .build();

        boolean test = conditionService.isValid(build, flow, execution);

        assertThat(test, is(true));
    }

    @Test
    void notValid() {
        // ...
    }
}
```
::

## Develop a task runner

> Task Runners is an extensible, pluggable system capable of executing your tasks in arbitrary remote environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Task Runners are an extensible, pluggable system capable of executing your tasks in arbitrary remote environments.
```

        AbstractLogConsumer defaultLogConsumer = taskCommands.getLogConsumer();

        java.lang.ProcessBuilder processBuilder = new java.lang.ProcessBuilder();

        processBuilder.directory(taskCommands.getWorkingDirectory().toFile());
        processBuilder.command(taskCommands.getCommands());

        java.lang.Process process = processBuilder.start();
        long pid = process.pid();
        logger.debug("Starting command with pid {} [{}]", pid, String.join(" ", taskCommands.getCommands()));

        try {
            int exitCode = process.waitFor();

            if (exitCode != 0) {
                throw new TaskException(exitCode, defaultLogConsumer.getStdOutCount(), defaultLogConsumer.getStdErrCount());
            } else {
                logger.debug("Command succeed with code {}", exitCode);
            }

            return new RunnerResult(exitCode, defaultLogConsumer);
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            logger.warn("Killing process {} for InterruptedException", pid);
            killDescendantsOf(process.toHandle(), logger);
            process.destroy();
            throw e;
        } 
    }
}
```
::

> 1. Task runners annotations are the same as for tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Task runners annotations are the same as tasks.
```

And these dependencies on your `build.gradle`:
```groovy
testImplementation "io.kestra:repository-memory"
testImplementation "io.kestra:runner-memory"
testImplementation "io.kestra:storage-local"
```

> Both are already set into the plugin template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both are already set inside of the plugin template.
```
